README.md, before:

![GitHub Banner](https://github.com/langfuse/langfuse-k8s/assets/2834609/2982b65d-d0bc-4954-82ff-af8da3a4fac8)

# langfuse-k8s

This is a community-maintained repository that contains resources for deploying Langfuse on Kubernetes.

## Helm Chart
We provide an Helm chart that helps you deploy Langfuse on Kubernetes. This Helm chart could use an external Postgres server or deploy one for you, thanks to [Bitnami Postgres Helm chart](https://github.com/bitnami/charts/tree/main/bitnami/postgresql).

### Installation
```bash
helm repo add langfuse https://langfuse.github.io/langfuse-k8s
helm repo update
helm install langfuse langfuse/langfuse
```

### Upgrading
```bash
helm repo update
helm upgrade langfuse langfuse/langfuse
```

### Configuration
The following table lists the useful configurable parameters of the Langfuse chart and their default values.

| Parameter | Description | Default |
| --- | --- | --- |
| `langfuse.nextauth.url` | When deploying to production, set the `nextauth.url` value to the canonical URL of your site. | `http://localhost:3000` |
| `langfuse.nextauth.secret` | Used to encrypt the NextAuth.js JWT, and to hash email verification tokens. | `changeme` |
| `langfuse.port` | Port to run Langfuse on | `3000` |
| `langfuse.salt` | Salt for API key hashing | `changeme` |
| `langfuse.telemetryEnabled` | Weither or not to enable telemetry (reports basic usage statistics of self-hosted instances to a centralized server). | `true` |
| `langfuse.extraContainers` | Dict that allow addition of additional containers | `[]` |
| `langfuse.extraInitContainers` | Dict that allow addition of init containers | `[]` |
| `langfuse.extraVolumes` | Dict that allow addition of volumes that can be mounted to the containers | `[]` |
| `langfuse.extraVolumeMounts` | Dict that mounts extra volumes to the langfuse container | `[]` |
| `langfuse.additionalEnv` | Dict that allow addition of additional env variables, see [documentation](https://langfuse.com/docs/deployment/self-host#configuring-environment-variables) for details. | `{}` |
| `service.type` | Change the default k8s service type deployed with the application | `ClusterIP` |
| `service.port` | Change the default k8s service port deployed with the application | `3000` |
| `service.additionalLabels` | Add additional annotations to the service deployed with the application | `[]` |
| `ingress.enabled` | Enable ingress for the application | `false` |
| `ingress.annotations` | Annotation to add the the deployed ingress | `[]` |
| `postgresql.deploy` | Enable postgres deployment (via Bitnami Helm Chart). If you want to use a postgres server already deployed (or a managed one), set this to false | `true` |
| `postgresql.auth.username` | Username to use to connect to the postgres database deployed with Langfuse. In case `postgresql.deploy` is set to `true`, the user will be created automatically. | `postgres` |
| `postgresql.auth.password` | Password to use to connect to the postgres database deployed with Langfuse. In case `postgresql.deploy` is set to `true`, the password will be set automatically. | `postgres` |
| `postgresql.auth.database` | Database name to use for Langfuse. | `langfuse` |
| `postgresql.host` | If `postgresql.deploy` is set to false, hostname of the external postgres server to use (mandatory) | `nil` |
| `postgresql.directUrl` | If `postgresql.deploy` is set to false, Connection string of your Postgres database used for database migrations. Use this if you want to use a different user for migrations or use connection pooling on DATABASE_URL. For large deployments, configure the database user with long timeouts as migrations might need a while to complete. | `nil` |
| `postgresql.shadowDatabaseUrl` | If your database user lacks the CREATE DATABASE permission, you must create a shadow database and configure the "SHADOW_DATABASE_URL". This is often the case if you use a Cloud database. Refer to the Prisma docs for detailed instructions. | `nil`
| `postgresql.primary.persistence.size` | Disk request for the postgres database deployed with Langfuse. Effective only if `postgresql.deploy` is set to true | `8Gi` |
| `extraManifests` | Dict that allow addition of additional k8s resources | `[]` |

#### Examples:

##### With an external Postgres server
```yaml
langfuse:
  nextauth:
    url: http://localhost:3000
    secret: changeme
  salt: changeme
  telemetryEnabled: true
service:
  type: ClusterIP
  additionalLabels: []
ingress:
  enabled: false
  annotations: []
postgresql:
  deploy: false
  auth:
    username: postgres
    password: changeme
    database: langfuse
  host: my-external-postgres-server.com
  directUrl: postgres://user:password@my-external-postgres-server.com
  shadowDatabaseUrl: postgres://user:password@my-external-postgres-server.com
```

##### Deploy a Postgres server at the same time
```yaml
langfuse:
  nextauth:
    url: http://localhost:3000
    secret: changeme
  salt: changeme
  telemetryEnabled: true
service:
  type: ClusterIP
ingress:
  enabled: false
postgresql:
  deploy: true
  auth:
    password: changeme
```


## Repository Structure
- `examples` directory contains example `yaml` configurations
- `charts/langfuse` directory contains Helm chart for deploying Langfuse with an associated database


Please feel free to contribute any improvements or suggestions.

Langfuse deployment docs: https://langfuse.com/docs/deployment/self-host

Commit message:

Add Ingress and postgres storageClass to the README

README.md, after:

![GitHub Banner](https://github.com/langfuse/langfuse-k8s/assets/2834609/2982b65d-d0bc-4954-82ff-af8da3a4fac8)

# langfuse-k8s

This is a community-maintained repository that contains resources for deploying Langfuse on Kubernetes.

## Helm Chart
We provide an Helm chart that helps you deploy Langfuse on Kubernetes. This Helm chart could use an external Postgres server or deploy one for you, thanks to [Bitnami Postgres Helm chart](https://github.com/bitnami/charts/tree/main/bitnami/postgresql).

### Installation
```bash
helm repo add langfuse https://langfuse.github.io/langfuse-k8s
helm repo update
helm install langfuse langfuse/langfuse
```

### Upgrading
```bash
helm repo update
helm upgrade langfuse langfuse/langfuse
```

### Configuration
The following table lists the useful configurable parameters of the Langfuse chart and their default values.

| Parameter | Description | Default |
| --- | --- | --- |
| `langfuse.nextauth.url` | When deploying to production, set the `nextauth.url` value to the canonical URL of your site. | `http://localhost:3000` |
| `langfuse.nextauth.secret` | Used to encrypt the NextAuth.js JWT, and to hash email verification tokens. | `changeme` |
| `langfuse.port` | Port to run Langfuse on | `3000` |
| `langfuse.salt` | Salt for API key hashing | `changeme` |
| `langfuse.telemetryEnabled` | Weither or not to enable telemetry (reports basic usage statistics of self-hosted instances to a centralized server). | `true` |
| `langfuse.extraContainers` | Dict that allow addition of additional containers | `[]` |
| `langfuse.extraInitContainers` | Dict that allow addition of init containers | `[]` |
| `langfuse.extraVolumes` | Dict that allow addition of volumes that can be mounted to the containers | `[]` |
| `langfuse.extraVolumeMounts` | Dict that mounts extra volumes to the langfuse container | `[]` |
| `langfuse.additionalEnv` | Dict that allow addition of additional env variables, see [documentation](https://langfuse.com/docs/deployment/self-host#configuring-environment-variables) for details. | `{}` |
| `service.type` | Change the default k8s service type deployed with the application | `ClusterIP` |
| `service.port` | Change the default k8s service port deployed with the application | `3000` |
| `service.additionalLabels` | Add additional annotations to the service deployed with the application | `[]` |
| `ingress.enabled` | Enable ingress for the application | `false` |
| `ingress.annotations` | Annotation to add to the deployed ingress | `[]` |
| `ingress.hosts` | Hosts to define for the deployed ingress. Effective only if `ingress.enabled` is set to true | `[]` |
| `postgresql.deploy` | Enable postgres deployment (via Bitnami Helm Chart). If you want to use a postgres server already deployed (or a managed one), set this to false | `true` |
| `postgresql.auth.username` | Username to use to connect to the postgres database deployed with Langfuse. In case `postgresql.deploy` is set to `true`, the user will be created automatically. | `postgres` |
| `postgresql.auth.password` | Password to use to connect to the postgres database deployed with Langfuse. In case `postgresql.deploy` is set to `true`, the password will be set automatically. | `postgres` |
| `postgresql.auth.database` | Database name to use for Langfuse. | `langfuse` |
| `postgresql.host` | If `postgresql.deploy` is set to false, hostname of the external postgres server to use (mandatory) | `nil` |
| `postgresql.directUrl` | If `postgresql.deploy` is set to false, Connection string of your Postgres database used for database migrations. Use this if you want to use a different user for migrations or use connection pooling on DATABASE_URL. For large deployments, configure the database user with long timeouts as migrations might need a while to complete. | `nil` |
| `postgresql.shadowDatabaseUrl` | If your database user lacks the CREATE DATABASE permission, you must create a shadow database and configure the "SHADOW_DATABASE_URL". This is often the case if you use a Cloud database. Refer to the Prisma docs for detailed instructions. | `nil`
| `postgresql.primary.persistence.size` | Disk request for the postgres database deployed with Langfuse. Effective only if `postgresql.deploy` is set to true | `8Gi` |
| `postgresql.primary.persistence.storageClass` | Disk PVC Storage Class for the postgres database deployed with Langfuse. Effective only if `postgresql.deploy` is set to true | `` |
| `extraManifests` | Dict that allow addition of additional k8s resources | `[]` |

#### Examples:

##### With an external Postgres server
```yaml
langfuse:
  nextauth:
    url: http://localhost:3000
    secret: changeme
  salt: changeme
  telemetryEnabled: true
service:
  type: ClusterIP
  additionalLabels: []
ingress:
  enabled: false
  annotations: []
postgresql:
  deploy: false
  auth:
    username: postgres
    password: changeme
    database: langfuse
  host: my-external-postgres-server.com
  directUrl: postgres://user:password@my-external-postgres-server.com
  shadowDatabaseUrl: postgres://user:password@my-external-postgres-server.com
```

##### Deploy a Postgres server at the same time
```yaml
langfuse:
  nextauth:
    url: http://localhost:3000
    secret: changeme
  salt: changeme
  telemetryEnabled: true
service:
  type: ClusterIP
ingress:
  enabled: false
postgresql:
  deploy: true
  auth:
    password: changeme
```

##### Enable ingress
```yaml
langfuse:
  [...]
service:
  [...]
ingress:
  enabled: true
  hosts:
    - host: langfuse.your-host.com
      paths:
      - path: /
        pathType: Prefix
  annotations: []
postgresql:
  [...]
```

## Repository Structure
- `examples` directory contains example `yaml` configurations
- `charts/langfuse` directory contains Helm chart for deploying Langfuse with an associated database


Please feel free to contribute any improvements or suggestions.

Langfuse deployment docs: https://langfuse.com/docs/deployment/self-host
